# Understanding Contrail Networking

 

Contrail Networking provides dynamic end-to-end networking policy and
control for any cloud, any workload, and any deployment, from a single
user interface. It translates abstract workflows into specific policies,
simplifying the orchestration of virtual overlay connectivity across all
environments.

It unifies policy for network automation with seamless integrations for
systems such as: Kubernetes, OpenShift, Mesos, OpenStack, VMware, a
variety of popular DevOps tools like Ansible, and a variety of Linux
operating systems with or without virtualization like KVM and Docker
containers.

Contrail Networking is a fundamental building block of Contrail
Enterprise Multicloud for enterprises. It manages your data center
networking devices, such as QFX Series Switches, Data Center
Interconnect (DCI) infrastructures, as well as public cloud gateways,
extending the continuous connectivity from your on-premises to private
and public clouds.

Contrail Networking reduces the friction of migrating to cloud by
providing a virtual networking overlay layer that delivers virtual
routing, bridging, and networking services (IPAM, NAT, security, load
balancing, VPNs, etc.) over any existing physical or cloud IP network.
It also provides multitenant structure and API compatibility with
multitenant public clouds like Amazon Web Services (AWS) virtual private
clouds (VPCs) for truly unifying policy semantics for hybrid cloud
environments.

For service providers, Contrail Networking automates network resource
provisioning and orchestration to dynamically create highly scalable
virtual networks and to chain a rich set of Juniper Networks or
third-party virtualized network functions (VNFs) and physical network
functions (PNFs) to form differentiated service chains on demand.

Contrail Networking is also integrated with Contrail Cloud for service
providers. It enables you to run high-performance Network Functions
Virtualization (NFV) with always-on reliability so that you can deliver
innovative services with greater agility.

Contrail Networking is equipped with always-on advanced analytics
capabilities to provide deep insights into application and
infrastructure performance for better visualization, easier diagnostics,
rich reporting, custom application development, and machine automation.
It also supports integration with other analytics platforms like Juniper
Networks Contrail Insights and streaming analytics through technologies
like Apache Kafka and its API.

Contrail Networking also provides a Graphical User Interface (GUI).This
GUI is built entirely using the REST APIs.

![Figure 1: Contrail Networking
Architecture](documentation/images/g300457.png)

 
